BDLNow: Data-Driven Prediction of Canada’s EconomyPowered by 45 economic indicators, BDLNow is a nowcast tool that delivers a real-time estimate of Canada’s GDP growth.BDLNow adjusts its estimate based on recently released high-frequency economic indicators . The tool generates an estimate of Canada’s GDP growth rate for the present quarter as well as for the previous quarter, months ahead of Statistics Canada’s official data release. Unlike a forecast, the nowcast is purely model-driven, which makes it dynamic and versatile and provides leading accuracy as new economic data becomes available. Just like a forecast, the GDP nowcast is only a best attempt at predicting where the economy is headed. See how BDLNow’s estimate compares to professional forecasters by looking at the Bloomberg survey range of professional forecasters.Automatically generated text:As of [current reference week], the BDL Nowcast estimates that Canada's real GDP quarterly growth for [reference quarter] will be [reference quarter estimate], compared with the previous estimate of [previous GDP estimate], as of [date of previous reference week], representing a change of [difference between current and previous estimate].Impact Analysis: What’s Moving Our PredictionSee how new weekly data shifts our model’s estimate of Canada’s GDP with Impact Analysis. Impact Analysis lets you quickly...* Spot what’s driving GDP changes each week.* Drill into data releases to see which indicators moved the needle.* Track historical trends to see how new data pushes growth up or down.* Stay on top of real-time economic drivers with clear, actionable insights.This section presents the historical GDP growth path in Canada as well as a forward-looking estimate of Canada’s real GDP growth trajectory over the next three quarters.Next official GDP release29 August 2025 – Statistics Canada will publish the GDP by Income and Expenditure estimates for Q2 2025. The nowcast will be refreshed immediately after the release.FAQsWhat’s the difference between a forecast and a nowcast?A nowcast is a real-time, data-driven estimate of current and near-term economic growth. Unlike traditional forecasts, nowcast estimates are entirely model-based, which means they don’t incorporate assumptions and aren’t adapted by an economist’s judgment. Each week, the nowcast model updates both the data and the importance of each variable in the model, making it highly responsive and accurate. However, as it doesn’t factor in long-term growth trends, estimates beyond the current or next quarter should be interpreted with lower confidence.What is BDLNow?BDLNow is a nowcast tool that produces real-time estimates of Canada’s quarterly gross domestic product (GDP) growth well ahead of official Statistics Canada figures. BDLNow incorporates 45 high-frequency economic indicators to generate an estimate of near-term economic conditions. This unique product provides a breakdown of the movements in the GDP estimate to help users understand which indicators are impacting the estimates. Users can also compare BDLNow’s result to the Bloomberg survey range of professional forecasters, which shows the range of GDP forecast submissions for the reference quarter by professional forecasters.[AD1][JK2][AD3]Understanding current economic conditions and their trends is vital to decision-making for organizations, businesses and consumers.How can I view past BDLNow estimates?You can select any prior “release week” from the dropdown above the data release table to see the releases and their respective impact on the point estimates over time.Why is it important to track gross domestic product (GDP) growth?Businesses need the most accurate and timely information to understand when to make investments, increase hiring and take risk. GDP is a value-add measure of goods and services produced in the economy, accounting for inputs required in that production. The growth rate at which the economy expands indicates the general direction of economic conditions. A positive number indicates the economy expanded, while a contraction means the economy shrank, indicating weak economic conditions. Quarterly GDP data is more reliable to gauge the overall trends in the economy. When does BDLNow begin tracking GDP, and when does it refresh for the next quarter’s GDP figures?BDLNow begins tracking GDP on the first Monday of each quarter. Statistics Canada releases quarterly GDP approximately 60 days following the end of the quarter. As the release of quarterly GDP occurs in the following calendar quarter (i.e. Q2 data is released in Q3), users can track two consecutive reference quarters in the tool.Upon release of a given quarter’s GDP from Statistics Canada, BDLNow begins tracking the next quarter in the calendar. For example: April 1 is the first day of Q2, but Statistics Canada doesn’t release Q1 GDP data until May 30. That means BDLNow continues tracking Q1 GDP until May 30, while simultaneously tracking Q2 GDP data. When is the next official Statistics Canada GDP release?Statistics Canada will publish the GDP by Income and Expenditure at the following schedule: Q2 2025: August 29, 2025Q3 2025: November 28, 2025Q4 2025: February 27, 2026BDLNow will stop estimation upon each official release and begin tracking the next reference quarter. What data and methodology underpin the nowcast?The model is based on the New York Federal Reserve’s nowcast model but is adapted as a dynamic factor expectations-maximization model. This allows the model to incorporate different data frequencies with varying lags, combining 45 indicators such as retail sales, manufacturing shipments, employment, commodity prices, and financial market data. Each week, the model updates both the data and the importance of each variable, making it highly responsive to new information. The decomposition of the GDP estimate into each variable’s contribution is shown in the “Impact Analysis” charts.[AD1]is this something we should highlight up front?[JK2R1]No, not in my opinion. I think that it's labelled on the chart is enough.[AD3R1]Ok